---
title: Graduate Applications Guide for Machine Learning Students
date: 2023-09-14 10:20
category: Teaching
tags: Reinforcement Learning, Continual Learning, Robotics 
author: Glen Berseth
published: Online
authors: Glen Berseth
summary: Robotics is a rapidly growing field with interest from around the world. This summer school offers tutorials and lectures on state-of-the-art machine learning methods for training the next generation of learning robots. This summer school is an extension supported by the many robotics groups around Montreal. 
layout: page
type: Continual Learning
titleShort: Course in Robot (real-world-agent) Learning
layout: page
---

# Grad Applications Guide for Machine Learning Students

Your application is made up of many parts, and each part serves a purpose and speaks to a different audience. Keep in mind the readers of these applications want to be confident you have the knowledge and passion to succeed at graduate school.

To **increase the chances of success,** It often helps to have a short list of schools that best fit your profile. For example, this will help find a good match between the student and the prof. Not all schools are this way, but before considering a student, the professor may want to know if the student has **skills** and **interests** in the **same area** as the professor. While profs may accept students who are generally smart, those students will likely perform better if they share similar interests as the professors’ planned research direction. It is with this in mind I provide a few tips on how to design your application to help find good pairs between grads and profs, which will make the graduate student program more synergistic. Starting with the puspse of each component of the application and what is important to communicate.

**Transcripts or Grades (learning ability)**

Good **Grades** show that a student can learn. Learning is an important skill for graduate school as most of the job will be spent learning, whether in class or generating new knowledge for the research community. Getting good grades is important but possibly not the most important aspect of the application. 

**The CV (leadership and independence)**

The CV is meant to tell the reader about accomplishments. Make sure to organize this well to put your best achievements at the top of this document. This should focus on achievements that are not already listed in your transcripts. For example, if the student participated in interesting extra-curricular activities, competitions or student groups and what was learned from those experiences.

**The Research proposal (passion and creativity)**

Your proposal should communicate the types of problems you want to work on and ******************************************************************why you are passionate enough to progress through the challenges during the program.****************************************************************** The proposal should avoid repeating information in your transcripts and CV. It should be easier to find that information in those documents. For example, it is not very inspiring to say we got good grades and want to use ML to detect dark matter. A more helpful thing to put in the proposal document is a good story about why you are interested in this area. Be honest and sincere here. Tell the story at a broad enough scope of research that you will be truly interested in that research.

**You reference letter writers (unbiased opinion)**

The reference letters are designed to back up the content in the rest of the application. They are a third-person account of the student's skills and their assessment of the student's potential. When looking for letter writers, it is good to get a mix of people who know you well and can comment on your work in detail and people who are stronger in their field.

## Connecting with Faculty

Students can message profs to ask about open positions and express interest. If students are going to cold email profs, it will be helpful to include why you think you are a good match with that individual prof in the first line or two of the email. Also, just saying that you are a great match may not work well because a professor's research direction changes, and we do not want to look presumptuous about someone else’s plans.

## Practice for Interviews

If you're offered an interview, practice beforehand by researching common interview questions and preparing thoughtful responses. This will help you feel more confident and articulate during the interview.